#kirkpatrick-point-location
This repo contains an implementation of the Kirkpatrick's point location algorithm. Given a set of *N* points, the algorithm preprocesses and triangulates the set in **O(n)** time. Henceforth, it supports locating query points *q* (i.e. finding which triangle from the triangulation *q* is contained in) in **O(log n)** time. 

##Implementation
The main implementation takes place in the constructor of our Kirkpatrick class, which creates the DAG that supports location queries. We store the initial triangulation of the bounding triangle and the N points in graph data structure that we created. The data structure, a class called MyGraph, is a modified adjacency matrix. At each possible edge [i, j], instead of storing a boolean indicating the existence of that edge, we store the faces (up to 2) that that edge is a part of. If the edge doesn’t exist, then no faces are stored at [i, j]. Our graph structure supports most operations in constant time given the nature of the Kirkpatrick algorithm. To compute the degree/neighbors of a vertex does require O(N) time however.
The rest of our implementation is fairly standard. For triangulation of the initial N points, the triangulation including the bounding triangle, as well as the triangulation of the holes during the DAG creation, we use the SciPy library’s triangulation method and the Tri library’s constrained triangulation method. Both methods perform Delaunay triangulation; for example, the Tri library uses triangle flips (if the Delaunay criterion don’t hold) to construct it’s a triangulation.

##Acknowledgements
In addition to using a handful of common Python libraries like *numpy*, *scipy*, and *matplotlib*, the code also leverages the *tri* library for Delauney triangulation. Instructions for setup can be found [here](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/tri/0.3).